pytholog (Write Prolog in Python)
================
![pytholog logo](./img/pytholog-logo.png)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/MNoorFawi/pytholog.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/MNoorFawi/pytholog)

## Overview

Python library that enables using **logic programming** in python. 
The aim of the library is to explore ways to use symbolic reasoning with machine learning.

Pytholog supports probabilities.

Pytholog gives facts indices (first term) and uses **binary search** to search for relevant facts instead of looping over all knowledge base.
So when defining rules, **make sure that the main search terms are in the first position to speed up the search queries.**


There is a SourceForge project, available here: https://sourceforge.net/projects/pytholog/, that has an executable tool that works as a standalone **logical database** with a **RESTful API** that can be queried by and used with other applications. 

The tools in the project work in Linux and Windows and there is also the script to be built on OSX system.

#### prolog syntax
![](./img/prolog_ex.png)

Prolog takes facts and rules. A fact or a rule has a predicate which in
“likes(noor, sausage)” is “likes” and in “friend(X, Y)” is “friend”.
Rules have “Left Hand Side (LHS)” which has a predicate and “Right Hand
Sides (RHS)” or “goals” to be searched to answer the queries about the
rules. LHS and RHS in a rule are separated with “:-”. Each predicate has
“Terms”. Prolog uses lowercased variables to describe “constant values”
and uppercased values to describe “variables” that need to be updated
from the query.

Let’s take an example: **likes(noor, sausage)** is a fact which has
**likes** as a predicate and **(noor and sausage)** as terms.
**friend(X, Y) :- +(X = Y), likes(X, Z), likes(Y, Z)** is a rule which
defines that two persons are considered friends if they like the same
dish. This rule has an LHS **friend(X, Y)** and RHS or goals **\[+(X =
Y), likes(X, Z), likes(Y, Z)\]**. The comma separating the goals means
**and** while **;** will mean **or**. Variables in the fact are
lowercased meaning they are truths and cannot change. While in a rule
they are Uppercased meaning they need to be changed while in a query.

Prolog uses **backtracking** search to answer the questions and the
queries.

I loved prolog and the idea of Symbolic Intelligence. So I decided to
build a module or a framework in python that can allow me to use prolog
inside python aiming to combine the power of machine learning and
symbolic reasoning.
